# SoyMeta
The remarkable rise in soybean transcriptome studies over the past few years generated an enormous amount of expression data, encompassing various tissues, developmental conditions, and genotypes. All these datasets make meta-analysis of soybean available, which could provide knowledge from the system-level. As a results, firstly, we build an automatic data analysis pipeline for RNA-seq and microarray experiments, which can easily get differential expression genes and their enriched functions from raw sequencing datasets, including quality control, aligning reads, differential gene expression analysis and functional enrichment analysis. More specifically, in the pipeline, we use TrimGalore-0.6.5 to trim sequence adapter from the read FASTQ files. The trimmed FASTQ files are then used for quality control with Fastqc, which provides a quick view on the quality of the raw sequence reads from multiple analyses, ranging from the sequence quality, GC content, to library complexity, and produce a report in HTML format which could be viewed from web browser. We perform alignments with STAR to the soybean genome and transcriptome. For microarray datasets, raw datasets are got and processed with GEOquey and affy R package, and are normalized with gcrma R package. Datasets with poor quality controls were excluded. For each RNA-seq dataset, the RPKM values and raw counts are used for tissue-specific and differential gene expression analysis, while for microarray dataset, the gcrma values and rma values are used for tissue-specific and differential gene expression analysis. Limma, DESeq2, edgeR and TopGo are used for gene differential and functional enrichment analysis respectively.  Secondly, we conducted meta-analysis of the collected soybean expression datasets. In addition, to identify tissue-specific gene expression, the Tau method, which is based on graded tissue specificity index, is used by applying a minimum threshold of 0.85. 

We have collected data from 7,440 publicly available soybean transcriptome samples. After processed the raw sequencing reads, and mapped them to the soybean reference genome with the designed pipeline 6,360 samples are left, 4006 of which are from GEO database others are from EMBL-EBI. Specifically, the 4006 samples from GEO can be divided into 1398 different tissue, development and genotypes. The 2354 RNA-seq samples can be divided into 93 different development stages and 79 different tissues. 
